# Are you suffering from CTSD?

by Mark Seaman


![](img/coronavirus.png)

[Pandemic Blues Journal](./)

---

Veterans of combat and people that have experienced other forms of trauma often
suffer from PTSD.  Humans are not made to endure such extreme
hardships and the lingering effects of the trauma can inflict permanent damage
on our minds and sense of well-being.

Traumatic events have come upon the whole world in the last few weeks.  This will
undoubtedly have a serious impact on mental health globally.  I'm calling this
dramatic and sudden impact CTSD (because it rhymes with PTSD). Coronavirus
Traumatic Stress Disorder results from our world suddenly being broken.

Our world has actually been broken for a long time but we have been insulated
from a lot of the suffering by our illusion of control. The American psyche is
built on the American Dream and involves Prosperity, Freedom, and Success in
exchange for hard work and clean living.

The rapid spread of the coronavirus has created a worldwide panic. It has caused
us to realize that entire world is built on a fragile network of relationships.
No one knows when this will end or where will end up when it does. The illusions
of control and safety have been stripped away.

Think about what you were most concerned about on March 1, 2020.  I suspect that
it was not about being swept into a global pandemic that would break the world.
But I can almost guarantee that your top concerns today are related to the health
and safety of the ones you love.

If you are seriously doubting whether we will make it through or if you will be
able to lead a good life in the aftermath then you may be experiencing CTSD.  I
want to start people thinking about how we can pick up the pieces and make the
world even better than when this all started.

Not only am I expecting that we will beat the virus but we will also beat CTSD.
Let's work together to replace all of the broken systems that not served us well
for a long time now.

CTSD might be used as motivation to bring a new normal that supports the American
Dream of "Prosperity for All".
