## My First Pandemic

I'll never forget my first global pandemic.  For me it happened on March 9, 2020.
Sure, we had all been watching the news of yet another virus in China. But we
were probably safe - after all Americans are immune from most of the suffering 
that occurs "Over there".  Or so we thought.

Two days later a decision was made to start teaching classes at the university.
In two days my world totally changed.  That's when toilet paper became the most
treasured of all purchases.

This is my first pandemic and I’m still trying to admit to myself that this is
real. I have a hard time believing that reality has changed so dramatically and
quickly.

The events of the last month have highlighted three truths.

1.    The world is badly broken. All of our systems are fragile and in danger of
collapse. We all have some responsibility to protect those around us and to make
our little sphere of influence a bit brighter. I am by nature pessimistic, but
this scenario exceeds my worst imagination. Now is the time for us to work
together to reduce the suffering.

2.    We are all connected for better or worse. I founded a software development
company called Shrinking World Solutions in 2007. The idea behind the name is
that we are now fundamentally connected globally. The rapid spread of the virus
and panic shows just how connected we are. Sixteen days elapsed from the first
query about teaching my university classes online in case of an outbreak to a
state order in Colorado to stay at home.

3.    I can’t stop touching my face … just telling me not to do it makes me want
to do it SO bad. Last night I was watching a TV shows that was recorded a few
weeks ago. People greeted each other and shook hands followed by a quick
embrace. Don’t they know how dangerous that is? They probably just transmitted
the virus but won’t know for two weeks.

The world will never go back to the way it was. The only way past in through!
We will create a new world with systems that actually function again, but that
will take time. In the mean time …

Be safe and don’t forget to be awesome.
